what is better than a low-carb Italian
favourite not much today I'm going to
show you how to make eggplant rollatini
cat heart style a little piece of heart
I'm going to slice up some eggplant and
then we're going to make a filling with
ricotta cheese and my secret ingredient
that is going to spice it up some spicy
Italian sausage first off I have to prep
my eggplant now when we're cooking an
eggplant like this we can't just cut it
and roll it it'll it'll break in half so
we have to bake it first I have my oven
preheated at 375 degrees and I have a 1
pound eggplant right here and what I'm
looking for this is a serving for two to
three people so we're looking for 8 good
slices of eggplant that I can put on my
baking tray and we can bake just to get
some of the moisture out and to make it
really pliable so we can roll it up with
our filling the first step would be to
take our eggplant and cut the end right
off and this will help us guide us on
the mandolin as well now the I plan is
going to be put cut into a quarter inch
slice I feel like this is the best slice
it's not too thick not too thin and I am
going to leave the skin on now I know
some people might be skeptical about
leaving the skin on my sister is one of
them but when she ate this she barely
even noticed it was there it literally
melts in your mouth it does not become
stringy it's it's actually really good
so give it a try if you don't like the
skin definitely peel it at this stage
but I'm going to leave the skin on
so we have our mandolin here if you
don't have a mandolin that's fine just
cut it into you know thin slices about a
quarter of an inch thick and don't don't
be scared to use a measuring tape I do
it all the time even when I'm cooking
other people's recipes I like to know
exactly how thick or thin to cut
something so now the first slice is
going to be all skin so we're going to
discard that one we're going to go right
down the mandolin ok see first slice
clean cut and we're going to discard it
only because it's all skinned and it's
going to be a little bit smaller than
the other pieces so let's see
okay and as we cut them look at that
it's perfect this is the perfect slice
so it's good thing we cut off the skin
because now we have a good piece now
we're going to lay them on a Silpat just
like this if you don't have a sill pad
you should buy one I use this every day
it's it's like $20 you can get them on
Amazon it's so worth it because you
don't have to spray it with anything
your um your tray doesn't get a mess I
mean I use it so much for this if you
don't have one just use some tinfoil and
you know I like my cooking spray because
I don't like things to stick so I would
spray a little bit of cooking spray use
some tinfoil and you're good to go so
I'm going to make eight more or seven
more slices of this and here we go so we
have our eight slices of eggplant ready
to go I'm going to pop this into a 375
degree oven for 10 minutes and like I
said the reason we're doing that is to
make sure that the eggplant gets pliable
so we can roll it if I do it right now
it'll snap in half and also it releases
some of the moisture from the eggplant
and by doing that it makes it so our
eggplant rollatini dish is not soggy or
extra wet and watering down the sauce
because we definitely don't want that
in the meantime while the eggplant cooks
we're going to brown some sausage for my
filling so meet me over by the stove
first step to making our filling is some
Italian sausage I have about a teaspoon
of oil in here just so that the sausage
has something to cook around with and
I'm going to take the sausage by the pot
half of a pound and put it right in like
I always say we have a sigle which is
exactly what we want we want this to
start cooking immediately as soon as it
hits the pan so mine were actually
patties that's what my grocery store
does um you can only find it with the
casings just remove the casings and then
you can just sautee it just like it's
regular on ground sausage we're going to
saute the ground sausage the
probably through when we want to cook it
all the way through and then we want to
cool it down a little bit before we add
it to our second part of our filling is
the ricotta cheese Parmesan cheese
mozzarella cheese so we're going to
assemble that next and then we're
waiting also for advanced methods oven
so you can turn our goal now we're going
to start to assemble our filling we're
really quick I left the oven on at 375 I
took out the eggplant cuz it was in
there for 10 minutes so now that's on
the stove cooling and I also finished
browning my sausage and I drained out
any excess oil so it's not going to give
us a greasy rollatini we want both of
those things to cool down because we
don't want to add really hot things to a
cheese mixture and we don't want to roll
up hot eggplant they'll hurt your
fingers so we're going to start doing
our filling right now
now I want to add some cheese to the
cheese to the cheese so we got three
kinds of cheese going on here we have
ricotta cheese I use whole milk ricotta
and the next thing that we're going to
add is some Parmesan cheese now you can
use any kind I've used I'm using a
really really powdery kind today put
that right in next cheese is some whole
milk mozzarella cheese now now they sell
you know pizza mixes they sell Italian
cheese blends go crazy do whatever kind
of cheese you like I just like plain
mozzarella cheese keep it simple I'm
going to add half of this then the other
half I'm going to actually save to tap
the rollatini width right before we bake
it onto the spices so I'm going to use
you know some normal spices like salt
and pepper and then some other Italian
favorites that are so and Papa great
next Italian seasoning you got to put
this in because this is going to give us
that basil the oregano the parsley it's
going to give us all those warm flavors
that we know and love for an Italian
food and then of course garlic powder I
rarely cook without it if you've seen
any of my other videos
unless I'm like making a dessert even in
breakfast there's going to be garlic all
right
perfect there we go
last spice is going to be some onion
powder garlic onion they go together
perfect okay so now before I am at my
sausage in I'm actually going to just
give this a mix and before I add a
beaten egg I'm going to taste it because
I don't want to eat raw egg and the eggs
not really going to give it much flavor
but the egg is going to kind of help
keep the mixture together so that
doesn't get too runny while it's in the
oven this is looking great you can see
that Italian seasoning and the pepper
running through all of the cheese's
everything is melding together perfectly
alright so what I'm going to do is just
grab my tasting spoon just a little bit
I just want to make sure that all the
spices are good mmm perfect filling
right here mmm perfect - voices and salt
and pepper that is key to this because
if you don't have enough salt enough
seasoning you're not gonna have a good
filling and then the sauce might carry
you but the filling is where it's at you
want it to be nice and gooey this is
perfect all right
cheese off of my lip gloss so now since
we know we like this we're going to add
in our egg now so I'm going to add in
one beaten egg and I'm going to mix it
one more time just to get that all
incorporated see why we didn't want to
taste it after we did this I actually
had to do it the other day it was kind
of gross I just pretended it was brownie
batter which I have no problem eating
with raw egg in it but those days are
over
it's low carb now all right perfect see
it just mixes right in so now I'm
actually going to go and grab the
sausage and we're going to fold that
right into our cheese mixture now
remember this is half a pound of sauteed
browned hot Italian sausage if you don't
like to use hot sausage if you're
cooking for kids it's fine just go ahead
and use mild it's whatever you like
that's what's great about a majority of
my recipes it's
whatever you have on hand and whatever
your flavor preference is yummy the
minute the sausage hits the cheese all
those spices latch onto the sausage and
it literally smells amazing
it hasn't even hit the oven yet all
right great so this is the mixture we're
working with now ricotta cheese
mozzarella cheese Parmesan cheese a
bunch of spices and some sausage so what
I'm going to do next
is run my spatula so that it flattens
out the top surface of my mixture and
since we have 8 eggplants I want to make
sure that each eggplant kind of gets the
same amount so I'm just going to score
it just eyeballing it so that I make
eight amounts this will help me in a
second when I am going to be assembling
the eggplant rollatini because then each
one will kind of get the same amount if
you just start scooping sometimes you
end up with a gigantic blob at the end
and one that's too skinny and then
sometimes you end up with not enough for
your very last eggplant so this actually
is a really helpful tip helps me every
time sometimes I forget to do it and it
I wish I did it and so that's for that's
what we're going to do for that right
now I'm going to clean up a little bit
and then I'm going to start assembling
our eggplant rollatini I'll meet you
right back here what we want to do is
take our swed an 8 by 8 just a square
pan this should fit 4 4 & 4 on each side
2 rows or 4 and we want to take some
sauce this also I'm using today is a Fra
Diavolo sauce that I actually bought at
the store you could use any kind of
sauce you like or any kind that you make
it's totally up to you this is the cool
part like I said do whatever you want or
have I like to actually go to the
supermarket and buy a local brand of
sauce which this one is so it's nice and
fresh and actually tastes homemade so I
mean if you can buy a jar sauce for less
than $10 and you don't have to you know
cook gravy all day like why not
especially during a busy weeknight this
is the perfect meal because it comes
together pretty quickly so I put in
enough sauce just to cover the bottom of
the pan here because we want our
eggplant to sit in something now I'm
going to assemble the eggplant rollatini
as you can see my eggplant dried out a
little bit but they didn't shrink in
size but look at that
totally pliable look at that they're not
breaking nothing so this is perfect this
is exactly what we want and that's why
the thickness and the time in the oven
are perfect I'm going to put the
skinnier end right there now remember I
scored my filling so I know exactly how
much to take for each eggplant hat each
eggplant slice what I like to do is put
the filling right in the middle not in
the mouth in the middle of the eggplant
off to one side and then you're going to
spread it out so you're going to want to
spread your filling and leave about an
inch border right at the end and I'll
show you why right now because we're
going to take our eggplant and start and
just do a simple roll loose roll but as
you can see the filling is pushing
itself towards the end so we want to go
like that perfect roll right there
gorgeous isn't it
it even looks cute so we're going to
assemble eight of these four on the side
or on that side and here we go all our
eggplant are rolled and ready to go so
what I like to do is before I do any
cheese I like to do a little bit of
sauce just on top of each one why I
don't know I just feel like it keeps
everything kind of moist and it lets
that cheese stick to something so it
doesn't just fall down into the dish the
rest of the sauce that I have in this
bowl I'm actually going to warm up on
the stove just in case anybody you know
wants to put some on top I like a lot of
sauce j-league full of sauce so I like
to have some extra warmth upon the stove
just to use as a gravy at the end when
you're ready to serve so here I have the
rest of my mozzarella cheese whole milk
we're going to just go ahead and top
each piece with a generous amount of
cheese now this is where you can use as
much cheese or as least cheese whatever
you want to call it is you know as much
as you want because some people like a
lot of cheese some people don't they
want to kind of
two calories little lower so definitely
you know go a little lighter on the
cheese since it's cheese filling I had
about half a cup in the filling and this
is the other half of the cup so just one
cup in the whole dish and this will feed
about you know three or four people
depending on how many each person gets
I'm just going to go on with the rest
and the best part is just like my
meatball parmesan recipe when you put
the cheese like this and then their
sauce on the bottom the cheese on the
bottom will get all gooey in the sauce
and it just creates this amazing meal
this great great meal so what I'm going
to do is stick this in a 375-degree oven
I never turned it off from before and
it's going to be in there for about
twenty-five minutes
now at that point what I like to do
because I like it when the cheese gets
brown and bubbly on top I'm going to put
it under the broiler for about two
minutes but watch it carefully because
your broiler might be stronger than mine
and then after that I'm going to take it
out and I'm going to let it sit for five
minutes because just like lasagna you
don't want to if you know with noodles
and everything you don't want to cut
right into it as soon as it's out of the
oven not only is it going to be
extremely hot but it's going to kind of
be breaking apart and watery you want to
give it a couple minutes just to sit on
the stove just so that it cools down a
little bit and it keeps all the flavor
in the cheese doesn't get all gooey so
I'm going to pop this in the oven and I
will see you back here Oh
sooner than later because I can't wait
to try this how amazing does this look I
can't even take it can you believe this
is a low carb dinner and we're eating
Italian food it's like you're not you're
going to miss the pasta that's the best
part about this I'm actually going to
put myself off the piece because I want
to try this and I want to tell you
exactly how great it is so let's say I'm
going to pick this one
here look at that see how the sauce is
not watery look at that it's not watery
at all that's because we baked our
eggplant first and your filling doesn't
ooze out look how great it stays
together that's what that egg did it
binded everything together perfectly now
I was warming sauce on the stove but you
could easily get enough sauce on the
bottom here just depends how much you
have if you had a Caesar salad or side
salad with this this is a complete
dinner so it's great and it's easy for a
weeknight meal to especially we use
jarred tomato sauce cut right in the
middle and because we let it sit staying
together that's a huge piece I'm not
going to eat that at one bite the
perfect bite right here
mozzarella good.we mozzarella included
still pretty hot
mmm
when our winner right here Wow
and you know what because I use Fra
Diavolo sauce and I use spicy Italian
sausage getting a little bit of heat
right back here right now it is
phenomenal
mmm this is great it's good to entertain
with double this recipe triple it make a
whole tray if you don't want to do
low-carb stuff it into some pasta shells
the big jumbo shells I did that for my
sister the other week because she just
had a baby so I did that for her at the
dinner that she could have she's not
low-carb she wanted the shells so that's
what she got so it's such a versatile
dish this filling can go in a bunch of
different things use them in lasagna
it's great for this recipe as well as
many others go to my blog little piece
of heart and I will see you next time
for another episode in my kitchen